In this lecture, we are going to learn another method for strings manipulation, which will allow us
to extract portions of text.
In other words, you will be able to select a fragment of the string and store it in another variable.
This operation is called slicing.
This procedure is similar to the one we saw in the previous lecture to extract a character from its
index.
But if we now add a colon and a second index always greater than the previous one, we will obtain all
the characters that fall within these limits.
The first number indicates the index where we will start extracting our fragment, and the second number
indicates where our fragment ends but doesn't include it.
We can also include a third factor that allows us to set how many characters are snippet we'll select.
We'd better go to PY Charm to see all the variations of this trick.
And now from py charm we're going to learn the different variations for slicing our strings for that.
First, we're going to create a variable called text in which we're going to load a string that is composed
by the letters of the alphabet up to M.
We're going to do it in capital letters so that they are better visualized and we're going to choose
to do it with the letters in order so we can see easier for you to understand how it works.
Now we're going to create a second variable that is going to be called fragment.
This one will contain our text, but let's have the square braces with the index.
Two.
You already know how to do this, but follow me and let's print our fragment.
If I run this, we come to run and run and we choose Slice, which is what the file is called.
And here we have a capital C, which is index two of our string.
Perfect.
Now, let's start with the variations.
I already know where I want to find my character.
But what happens if I add here a colon and then, for example, the number five?
What I'm doing is saying, I want you to extract all the characters that go from index to and up to,
but not including index number five.
So here we would have C and then DD would also come in because it was an index number three.
Next would follow the E, which is in index number four and the F would not do it as it's in index five.
And remember, that is until but not including this second factor.
Then we could have C, the E and not the F.
Let's see if we run it.
C, d, e.
Right.
That's how we're going to extract a fragment or a slice of our strings.
If you omit the second factor and leave just the colon, python is going to interpret that.
You want to do it from index two to the end.
Run it and see that this has extracted from C to M.
Assumes that having the colon but omitting the second factor means as far as you can.
If we do it the other way round, we're going to leave the first factor, empty colon and we're going
to say five as the second factor.
Here it will interpret extract from the very beginning of the string from index zero to but not including
index five.
We run it and we have a, B, C, D, E, OC.
So we have these first two factors, right, to again, how we're going to make a second factor longer
than is OC.
So we're going to get a longer string and then we're going to include a third factor.
As Phil showed you in the introductory part of this lecture, this third factor is going to tell Python
how many characters it should count from the previous one to extract the next one.
So if I say to here, just to pick a small number, we execute it and look what we've done from index
number two to index number ten, but not including.
It has taken the first character counted two to choose the next one and so on.
So it took the C, it skipped the D, it took the E, it skipped the F and it took the G, it skipped
the H and it took the I, skipped the J and it dropped the K because that's index ten.
I could have said three here and this would make it skip three by three, which leaves us fewer and
fewer characters.
Or if we wanted to, we could leave the first and second factors empty.
Then we say three here, and it would take all the characters that there are from the index zero to
the last one, but skipping three by three and a curiosity.
If we put here a negative number, for example, minus one and we execute it, we're going to obtain
the whole chain.
But in reverse, it's taken from the last number and one by one it has been going by the inverse order
until arriving at the A.
If we put here minus two, it would be the same thing.
We'd have the same reverse order, but this time skipping one at a time and leaving the next one.
So that's all about slices of your string.
Don't miss the practical exercises that follow.
And let's go to the next lecture to continue learning the elements that will allow us to build today's
project.
See you there.